docs: Security Audit document (#971)
platform-platform/monorepo: docs/19_security_audit_document.md

Consider the following table that describes the fields of a document within the `build` collection:

| Field        | Description                                                 |
|--------------|-------------------------------------------------------------|
|`buildNumber` | A number of this build.                                     |
|`buildStatus` | A resulting status of this build.                           |
|`coverage`    | A test coverage percent of this build.                      |
|`duration`    | A duration of this build excluding the queue time.          |
|`projectId`   | An id of the project this build belongs to.                 |
|`startedAt`   | A date-time of this build's start.                          |
|`url`         | A URL of the source control revision used to run the build. |
|`workflowName`| A name of the workflow executed this build.                 |

Here is a table of security rules applied to the `build` collection.

| Operation          | Security Rules                  |
|--------------------|---------------------------------|

> | `read`             | `Authorization`                 |

Reviewer: Would it be great to explain each `security rule` a bit wider? I mean that the `Authorization` or `isBuildValid` may be incomprehensible without additional context. I think it would be nice to mention that, for example, `Authentication` means that the user is authenticated and has a valid email domain somewhere.

### The `project_groups` collection

The `project_groups` collection contains project group data. The single document of this collection contains data of a specific project group.

Consider the following table that describes the fields of the `project_groups` document:

| Field        | Description                                               |
|--------------|-----------------------------------------------------------|
| `name`       | A name of this project group.                             |
| `projectIds` | A list of project IDs that belong to this project group.  |

Here is a table of security rules applied to the `project_groups` collection.

| Operation         | Security Rules                         |
|-------------------|----------------------------------------|
| `read`, `delete`  | `Authorization`                        | 
| `create`, `update`| `Authorization`, `isProjectGroupValid` | 

### The `projects` collection

The `projects` collection defines projects within the Metrics Web Application. The single document stands for one project and contains the project's name.

Here is a table of security rules applied to the `projects` collection.

> 

Reviewer: Does it make sense to specify the fields of this document stored in the database to be more consistent? The same for the `user_profiles` collection.

- `Unauthenticated user`.
- `Authenticated with a password and allowed email domain user with a verified email`.
- `Authenticated with a password and not allowed email domain user with a verified email`.
- `Authenticated with a password and allowed email domain user with not verified email`.
- `Authenticated with a password and not allowed email domain user with not verified email`.
- `Authenticated with Google and allowed email domain user with a verified email`.
- `Authenticated with Google and not allowed email domain user with a verified email`.
- `Authenticated with Google and allowed email domain user with not verified email`.
- `Authenticated with Google and not allowed email domain user with not verified email`.

The tests also cover invalid data input cases if the rule requires additional data validation.

### Firebase Key Protection

Metrics Web Application uses [`Firebase Key Restrictions`](https://github.com/platform-platform/monorepo/blob/master/docs/09_firebase_deployment.md#api-key-restrictions) to restrict the services available using the Metrics Firebase project key (also known as `Browser Key`) and restricts the origins this key can be used from.

> Currently, the 3 APIs are enabled for the `browser key`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Currently, the following APIs are enabled for the `browser key`:
```
What do you think?

## Authorization

To be able to import the build data, the CI Integrations tool needs to authorize itself in the `source` CI the build data comes from, and in the `destination` Firebase Cloud Firestore Database.

To authorize in the Firebase, the CI Integration tool uses the `email` and `password` credentials.

CI Integrations tool uses different types of authorization in CIs and uses HTTP headers to pass the authorization credentials. Consider the following table that describes the authorization methods in different CIs used by the CI Integrations tool:

| CI name        | HTTP header     | Value                                      | Authorization type   |
|----------------|-----------------|--------------------------------------------|----------------------|
|`Github Actions`| `Authorization` | `Bearer <your_token>`                      | Bearer authorization |
|`Buildkite`     | `Authorization` | `Bearer <your_token>`                      | Bearer authorization |
|`Jenkins`       | `Authorization` | `base64(<your_username>:<your_api_token>)` | Basic authorization  |

> The CI Integration tool does not store any access credentials and takes them directly from the CI Integrations Config. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The CI Integration tool does not store any access credentials and takes them directly from the CI Integrations configuration file. 
```
?

|---------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `isDebugMenuEnabled`            | Indicates whether the `Debug Menu` feature is enabled.                |
| `isPasswordSignInOptionEnabled` | Indicates whether the `Email and Password` sign in option is enabled. |

Here is a table of security rules applied to the `feature_config` collection.

| Operation | [Security Rules](#security-rules-description) |
|-----------|----------------|
| `read`    | `Allowed`      |
| `write`   | `Prohibited`   |

### Security Rules Description

| Rule                 | Description |
|----------------------|-------------|
| `isAccessAuthorized` | The user is authenticated and the email domain is valid. |
| `isProjectValid`     | A name of the given project is a string and the request data contains only the project name. |
| `isProjectGroupValid`| A name of the given project group is a string having maximum 255 characters, the given project IDs is a list containing no more than 20 project IDs, and the request data contains only the project group name and the projects' IDs. |

> | `isBuildValid`       | A project ID of the given build is a string and this project exists in the database, the build number is an integer, the start time of the build is a timestamp, the build status is either successful, failed, or unknown, the build duration is an integer, the workflow name is either a string or a null, the url of the build is a string, the test coverage is either float or null. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `isBuildValid`       | A project with the project ID from the request data exists in the database, and all the rest fields have a valid data type. The given build data contains only allowed fields declared in the [build collection](#the-build-collection) section |
```

Would it be a bit better to avoid mentioning the concrete data types here?

| CI name        | HTTP header     | Value                                      | Authorization type   |
|----------------|-----------------|--------------------------------------------|----------------------|
|`Github Actions`| `Authorization` | `Bearer <your_token>`                      | Bearer authorization |
|`Buildkite`     | `Authorization` | `Bearer <your_token>`                      | Bearer authorization |
|`Jenkins`       | `Authorization` | `base64(<your_username>:<your_api_token>)` | Basic authorization  |

The CI Integration tool does not store any access credentials and takes them directly from the CI Integrations configuration file.

## Configuration

As mentioned, the CI Integrations tool does not store any configuration files or any authorization credentials and parses all the relevant information from the given configuration file.

## Data stored

The CI Integrations tool processes and transfers build data to the Cloud Firestore Database and does not store any data.

# Coverage converter

> The Coverage Converter allows converting coverage data from specific coverage tool output format into Metrics Coverage format.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Coverage Converter allows converting coverage data from specific coverage tool output format into [Metrics Coverage format](https://github.com/platform-platform/monorepo/blob/master/metrics/ci_integrations/docs/01_ci_integration_module_architecture.md#coverage-report-format).
```
Does it make sense to create a hyperlink to the `Metrics Coverage format` here?

# Motivation
> What problem is this project solving?

This document describes the security aspects of the Metrics project parts.

# Goals
> Identify success metrics and measurable goals.

This document aims the following goals: 

- Explain the security aspects of the Metrics Web App application.
- Explain the security aspects of the CI Integrations.
- Explain the security aspects of the Coverage Converter.

# Non-Goals
> Identify what's not in scope.

This document does not describe the implementation of the Metrics project parts.

# Table of Contents

1. [Metrics Web Application security aspects](#metrics-web-application)
2. [CI Integrations security aspects](#ci-integrations)
3. [Coverage converter security aspects](#coverage-converter)

# Metrics Web Application
> Describe the security aspects of the Metrics Web Application.

Metrics Web Application uses Firebase services. Consider the following documentation that describes the [`Privacy and Security of Firebase services`](https://firebase.google.com/support/privacy).

## Authentication

Metrics Web Application uses the `Email and Password` and the `Google` sign-in options.

> The `Email and Password` sign in option uses the [`firebase_auth`](https://pub.dev/packages/firebase_auth) package that is a part of [`FlutterFire`](https://firebase.flutter.dev/). `FlutterFire` is a set of official Firebase plugins for Flutter.
> 
> The `Google` sign in option uses the [google_sign_in](https://pub.dev/packages/google_sign_in) package made by the Flutter Team.
> 
> The `Google` sign in option provides the user's email, OAuth2 access token, and OpenID Connect ID token, which then are passed to the [Firebase `Social Authentication` (3-rd party authentication method)](https://firebase.flutter.dev/docs/auth/social).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The main part of the Firebase Authentication integration is using the [`firebase_auth`](https://pub.dev/packages/firebase_auth) package. Consider the following statements about the authentication methods available: 
- The `Email and Password` method directly uses the [`firebase_auth`](https://pub.dev/packages/firebase_auth) package and signs in a user with the given email and password.
- The `Google Sign-In` method uses [google_sign_in](https://pub.dev/packages/google_sign_in) package to perform sign in and then pass the obtained credentials (the user's email, OAuth2 access token, and OpenID Connect ID token) to the to the [Firebase `Social Authentication` (3-rd party authentication method)](https://firebase.flutter.dev/docs/auth/social). At the moment, the `Google Sign-In` method is performed with the `email` scope.
```

> Firebase saves the information about users including the email, sign-in provider, creation date, last sign in and the user's UID, and is available in the [`Firebase Console`](https://console.firebase.google.com/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Firebase saves the information about users such as the email, sign-in provider, creation date, last sign in, and the user's ID. This information is available in the [`Firebase Console`](https://console.firebase.google.com/) on the `Firebase Authentication` page under the `Users` tab.
```

> `Firebase Authentication` persists the user's authentication state by default using the `localstorage`. The same strategy is used in Metrics Web Application. Consider the following links to learn more about the authentication state persistence: [`FlutterFire` documentation](https://firebase.flutter.dev/docs/auth/usage#persisting-authentication-state) and [`Firebase` documentation](https://firebase.google.com/docs/auth/web/auth-state-persistence).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To keep users signed-in, `Firebase Authentication` persists the user's authentication state using the `local storage` by default. The Metrics Web Application does not override the default behavior. Both [`FlutterFire` documentation](https://firebase.flutter.dev/docs/auth/usage#persisting-authentication-state) and [`Firebase` documentation](https://firebase.google.com/docs/auth/web/auth-state-persistence) provides more information about the authentication state persistence.
```

> 

Reviewer 2: Does it makes sense to add the following lines: 
```suggestion
_Note: Metrics does not duplicate the user's authentication data to the third-party databases! All authentication-related data is managed by the Firebase Authentication and is passed to it using official packages._
```

## Database

Metrics Web Application uses the `Firebase Cloud Firestore` as a database.

Consider the following [document that describes the  data model used in `Firebase Cloud Firestore`](https://firebase.google.com/docs/firestore/data-model).

> ### The `allowed_email_domains` collection
> 
> The `allowed_email_domains` collection contains the allowed email domains for the `Google` sign in option.
> 
> #### Documents
> 
> Each document represents a single valid email domain.
> 
> #### Document structure
> 
> Each document stores a valid email domain as a name and does not contain any fields.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### The `allowed_email_domains` collection

The `allowed_email_domains` collection contains the allowed email domains for the `Google Sign-In` method. The single document of this collection stands for the email domain that is allowed and may be used to authorize a user.

The documents of this collection do not have any fields. Instead, the ID of the document represents a single email domain. This prevents duplicates of email domains and simplifies validating as documents aren't to be fetched. 

Here is a table of security rules applied to the `allowed_email_domains` collection.
... ... 
```
Maybe it would be better to avoid creating a vast of subsections with little content. Also, Placing security rules after collection description seems to make sense. Please apply to all the collections-related sections.

#### Documents

Each document contains data of a specific project group.

#### Document structure

| Field        | Description                                               |
|--------------|-----------------------------------------------------------|
| `name`       | A name of this project group.                             |
| `projectIds` | A list of project IDs that belong to this project group.  |

### The `projects` collection

The `projects` collection contains project data.

#### Documents

Each document contains data on a specific project.

#### Document structure

| Field  | Description             |
|--------|-------------------------|
| `name` | A name of this project. |

### The `user_profiles` collection

The `user_profiles` collection contains user profiles` data including the selected theme.

#### Documents

Each document contains data associated with a specific user profile.

#### Document structure

| Field           | Description                                  |
|-----------------|----------------------------------------------|
| `selectedTheme` | A theme selected by the specific user.       |

### Security rules and tests

> The application uses the `Firebase Cloud Firestore Security Rules` to protect the database. The `Security Rules` describe certain conditions needed to access or modify the database. The `Firebase Security Rules` provide the main protection for the data used in the project.

Reviewer 2: Should we move this up before collections? 
```suggestion
The application uses the `Firebase Cloud Firestore Security Rules` to protect the data stored in the `Cloud Firestore`. The `Security Rules` describe conditions that should be met to access or modify the data these rules are protecting. If the CRUD request does not satisfy the appropriate set of conditions, this request is refused as having insufficient permissions.
```

|--------------------|---------------------------------|
| `read`             | `Authorization`                 |
| `create`, `update` | `Authorization`, `isBuildValid` |
| `delete`           | `Prohibited`                    |

#### [`user_profiles`](#the-user_profiles-collection) collection security rules:

| Operation | Security Rules                                           |
|-----------|----------------------------------------------------------|
| `get`     | `Authorization`, `isDocumentOwner`                       |
| `write`   | `Authorization`, `isDocumentOwner`, `isUserProfileValid` |
| `list`    | `Prohibited`                                             |
| `delete`  | `Prohibited`                                             |

#### [`feature_config`](#the-feature_config-collection) collection security rules:

| Operation | Security Rules |
|-----------|----------------|
| `read`    | `Allowed`      |
| `write`   | `Prohibited`   |

#### [`allowed_email_domains`](#the-allowed_email_domains-collection) collection security rules:

| Operation       | Security Rules |
|-----------------|----------------|
| `read`, `write` | `Prohibited`   |

> These rules are covered with tests which are located in the [`metrics/firebase/test/firestore/security_rules`](https://github.com/platform-platform/monorepo/tree/master/metrics/firebase/test/firestore/rules) folder.

Reviewer 2: We can keep it in the `Security Rules Testing` subsection below the "collections".

Each rule is tested imitating any possible type of user. Consider the following types of users used under tests:

- `Unauthenticated user`.
- `Authenticated with a password and allowed email domain user with a verified email`.
- `Authenticated with a password and not allowed email domain user with a verified email`.
- `Authenticated with a password and allowed email domain user with not verified email`.
- `Authenticated with a password and not allowed email domain user with not verified email`.
- `Authenticated with Google and allowed email domain user with a verified email`.
- `Authenticated with Google and not allowed email domain user with a verified email`.
- `Authenticated with Google and allowed email domain user with not verified email`.
- `Authenticated with Google and not allowed email domain user with not verified email`.

The tests also cover invalid data input cases if the rule requires additional data validation.

> ### Key protection

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Firebase Key Protection
```

| CI name        | HTTP header     | Value                                      | Authorization type   |
|----------------|-----------------|--------------------------------------------|----------------------|
|`Github Actions`| `Authorization` | `Bearer <your_token>`                      | Bearer authorization |
|`Buildkite`     | `Authorization` | `Bearer <your_token>`                      | Bearer authorization |
|`Jenkins`       | `Authorization` | `base64(<your_username>:<your_api_token>)` | Basic authorization  |

The CI Integration tool does not store any access credentials and takes them directly from the CI Integrations Config. 

## Configuration

As mentioned, the CI Integrations tool does not store any configuration files or any authorization credentials and parses all the relevant information from the given configuration file.

## Data stored

The CI Integrations tool processes and transfers build data to the Cloud Firestore Database and does not store any data.

> # Coverage converter

Reviewer 2: For the coverage converter, we should notice that it definitely just converts data - no saving to databases or sending to third-parties, however, the result of convert should be stored within the CI artifacts.
